# Uncovering Theological and Ethical Biases in LLMs

## Overview
This repository contains the resources and code used in the research paper "Uncovering Theological and Ethical Biases in Large Language Models (LLMs): An Integrated Hermeneutical Approach Employing Texts from the Hebrew Bible," by A.G. Elrod, Vrije University Amsterdam. The study explores the presence of theological and ethical biases in LLMs through a novel approach involving creative text generation tasks based on the Ten Commandments and the Book of Jonah.

## Contents
- `Code/`: Python scripts and notebooks used for data analysis and LLM interaction.
- `Generated Text/`: Texts generated by the LLMs as part of our study.
- `Prompts/`: The prompts used to elicit responses from the LLMs.

## Getting Started
To explore the materials in this repository, you may start by reviewing the prompts used in our research found in the `Prompts/` directory. Following this, the `Code/` directory contains all scripts for replicating the analysis. The outcomes of these prompts, as processed by various LLMs, are stored within the `Generated Text/` directory.

## How to Use
1. **Explore Prompts**: Familiarize yourself with the LLM text generation tasks by reviewing the prompts in the `Prompts/` directory.
2. **Run the Code**: Utilize the scripts in the `Code/` directory to analyze the LLMs' responses or to replicate the study.

## Requirements
- Python 3.8+

## Citation

If you use the resources or findings from this study in your work, please cite our paper as follows:

@article{elrod2023uncovering,
  title={Uncovering Theological and Ethical Biases in LLMs: An Integrated Hermeneutical Approach Employing Texts from the Hebrew Bible},
  author={Elrod, A.G.},
  journal={Journal Name},
  volume={xx},
  number={xx},
  pages={xx--xx},
  year={2024},
  publisher={Publisher}
}
